# Object Detection And Tracking Repository

Moving object detection may be a knowledge associated with computer vision, processing of image, neural network that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of a particular class in digital image and video. There is a huge significance of object tracking in real time as it enables several important applications such as to provide better sense of security using visual information, surveillance to recognize people, to analyze shopping behavior of customers in retail space, video abstraction to obtain mechanical annotation of videos, to generate object based summaries, traffic management to analyze flow, to detect accidents, video editing to remove cumbersome human operator interaction. The discovery of fixed or moving targets and following them on a continuous video streams is a significant and moving task so as to shield fields from enemies. The main goal of object tracking is the process of segmenting the interest of an object or multiple objects from the video scene and keeping track of its motion, occlusion and orientation. In our project object detection and tracking application using OpenCV blended with tensorflow will be implemented. Detecting objects and tracking while it is in motion is very helpful for both military and commercial applications. The main point of this task is to make object detection and tracking based surveillance systems accessible for everyone, for tracking vehicles. This project will be designed as low-cost applications. The hardware and software are chosen for not to make a trouble to the customer. The main objective of this project is to increase the number of systems which uses real time object detection and tracking on field applications. It will be challenging and interesting task to track the object of significance using image processing methods for various applications.
